This would affect not just individuals but also social media sites like Facebook, Google and Twitter which have their regional headquarters in Singapore.

Facebook and Google have said while they support regulation around fake news, they are concerned over some elements of the proposed law. Twitter has said it is reviewing the draft legislation.

Media outlets like the BBC, Financial Times, Wall Street Journal and Reuters who are also based in Singapore, will be affected if their content is deemed to be false.

Jail sentences and fines are also on the cards for those found guilty of publishing falsehoods with malicious intent or going against Singapore's public interest.

The government says the law will not target opinions or freedom of expression.

"Lawyers will know you can define what is true and what is false and refer to facts," Singapore's Home Affairs and Law Minister Kasiviswanathan Shanmugam said. "This legislation deals with false statement of fact. It doesn't deal with opinion, it doesn't deal with viewpoints. You can have whatever viewpoints, however reasonable or unreasonable."

Matters of public confidence
But experts say the law is too vague.

"The law is sweeping, broad and contains vague wording that can be common to legislation in Singapore," says Chong Ja Ian, a political scientist working in Singapore.

Professor Chong points to a number of clauses that he says gives broad latitude to the Singapore government.

"Several sections [4(f), 7(1)(b)(vi), 8(3)(f), 9(3)(f)] say that a person must not do anything in or outside Singapore, according to the law, to 'diminish public confidence' in a state body," says Professor Chong.

"What does 'diminish public confidence' mean? A minister can have a lot of latitude to determine whether a statement diminishes public confidence or not."

Take for example the high profile escape of alleged terrorist Mas Selamat, who escaped from a Singapore prison in 2008 by climbing out of a window.

Under the proposed law, that he broke out may be a fact, but could reporting that it was because of inadequate security measures, thereby eroding confidence in a public institution, be in violation of the law?

Experts say clauses like this could potentially make commenting or reporting on matters of public interest problematic.

